Week 2 Homework: Assessing Security Culture
Scenario
Employees at SilverCorp are increasingly using their own personal devices for company work.
Specifically, over half of all employees check their work email and communications via Slack on their personal mobile phones.
Another 25% of employees are doing other work-related activities using work accounts and work-related applications on their personal phone.
Allowing sensitive work information to be shared on employees’ personal devices has a number of security implications.
You must research these security risks and use the security culture framework to develop a plan to mitigate the concerns.
Instructions
Compose the answers to the following four steps in a Google Doc.
Step 1: Measure and Set Goals 
1. Using outside research, indicate the potential security risks of allowing employees to access work information on their personal devices. Identify at least three potential attacks that can be carried out. 
Answer : i. Exposed Email or Other Employee Interactions 
Employees who check work email on personal devices often fail to use basic security measures. If accessed, their email accounts or social media apps may provide easy information. 
ii. Device Loss or Theft 
Using personal device for official communication can be risky as unfortunately, on-the-go employees sometimes misplace devices, leaving company data at risk even if properly secured. 
iii. Malicious Mobile Apps 
Malware remains of concern for desktop and laptop users, but it’s even riskier for unassuming smartphone users. Many employees download problematic apps on their personal devices without bothering to check for authenticity. 
Mobile malware may be more difficult to detect, in part because it mimics popular and legitimate apps 
2. Based on the above scenario, what is the preferred employee behavior? - For example, if employees were downloading suspicious email attachments, the preferred behavior would be that employees only download attachments from trusted sources.  
Answers: 
i. Exposed Email or Other Employee Interactions: Invest in robust penetration testing to limit what ne’er-do-wells access when they inevitably obtain mobile devices. 
Conversations can be further protected via extensive data encryption. Employees should keep personal and work-related interactions separate, ideally using completely different apps for each type of contact. 
 
 
ii. Device Loss or Theft: Businesses should develop extensive anti-loss initiatives. Effective security measures are especially critical for vehicle fleets or airport visits, which account for the majority of personal mobile device thefts. In worst-case scenarios, tracking systems can hasten device recovery. 
Additionally, mobile data management solutions can remotely wipe compromised devices before the information becomes accessible. 
iii. Malicious Mobile App: policy development must thoroughly prepare companies for the possibility of malware on mobile apps. Workplaces should train employees to recognize problematic apps and ban those already identified as risky. 
Additionally, application readiness automation offers IT departments a wealth of information on app behavior. 
Companies with an automated readiness solution can quickly identify risky apps to minimize malware damage. Emerging technology known as mobile application management allows IT the ability to modify security settings for each user or application.  (Source: https://preyproject.com/) 
 
3. What methods would you use to measure how often employees are currently        not behaving according to the preferred behavior? 
Answer: Antivirus software installed on individual devices, for instance, is often a staple of such security programs. Companies may purchase a volume license and install software on devices or simply require employees to install their own and verify with IT that their devices are protected. This can be monitored over time to see which employees' device are frequently been flaged by the antivirus software for either having a malware or opening an unknown attachment. 
Monitoring is another component sometimes used as part of a security program, albeit with mixed opinions to monitor employees behaviors on their systems. IT could implement systems that monitor the GPS location of employee devices, or Internet traffic on individual devices. While these monitoring systems can prove beneficial for detecting unusual activity or locating a lost device, many consider these solutions to venture too far into employees’ privacy. 
Periodic security drill can also be implemented to see or capture the preparedness, implementations and adherence to the information security policy of the organization. 
4. What is the goal that you would like the organization to reach       regarding this behavior? 
Answer: The goal would be to reduce the number of employees using personal devices for official work to initially achieve 50% reduction in the first quarter while striving to eventually get to 5% or less overall by the end of the fiscal year.  
There should also be a Zero tolerance culture towards opening of unknown email attachments especially on official devices, this should be used as one of the KPI while accessing employee performance during the quarter. 
There will also be an 80% or above pass rate requirement for the employees in the information security quizzes. 
Step 2: Involve the Right People 
Now that you have a goal in mind, who needs to be involved? 
Indicate at least five employees or departments that need to be involved. For each person or department, indicate in 2-3 sentences what their role and responsibilities will be. 
Answer: Five People to be involved 
Chief Executive Officer of the company: -Providing information regarding the existing state of the company. -Bringing all involved parties to the table including the COO, Chief of staff, Chief financial officer -Providing resources for executing the proposed plan e-g buying anti-malware software, new encrypted laptops for the employees 
Chief Information Officer of the Company Role: 
Implementing the technological aspects of the cybersecurity proposed plan, e-g installing malwares, upgrading OS, encrypting employee's phones or laptops 
Conducting surveys for the assessment of security culture, conducting quality control studies for repeat assessment of whether the company is achieving the set milestones and goals for the implementation of the security policy 
Chief Operating officer 
Communicating the policy changes to the employees 
Training the employees against the security threats by creating awareness courses- such as awareness regarding the mechanisms of identity theft 
HR Manager 
Hiring new personnel as needed for implementing the new security culture- such as new IT specialists. Appointing a chief information security officer (CISO) 
Communicating the security risks to the lower managers and setting up VPNs for employees 
Chief Financial Officer 
Determining the financial feasibility in instituting the new company policies. For example determining whether the company can afford to issue new encrypted phones or laptops to the employees. 
Step 3: Training Plan 
Training is part of any security culture framework plan. How will you train your employees on this security concern? In one page, indicate the following: 
How frequently will you run training? What format will it take? (i.e. in-person, online, a combination of both) 
Answer: Initially a survey will be conducted to assess the knowledge base of the existing employees. The results of the survey will be analyzed for reliability and validity. The format of the training will be composed on both in person interactive sessions and online learning. The Company's leadership will be directly involved. The in person sessions will include participation by the company's leadership to emphasized the security policies. More specific topic will be targeted with remote online learning. At the current time, due to COVID even the initially in person session will be conducted in the form of live Zoom sessions Every new employee who joins the institution will have to complete the courses/live sessions as a mandatory requirement before starting with duties. Some training courses will be broad based creating general awareness, others will be targeted by specific areas of vulnerability as outlined below. The general courses will be repeated every year. Specific topic courses will be available every 6 months with updated data. 
What topics will you cover in your training and why? (This should be the bulk of the deliverable.) 
The live zoom session will be a welcome orientation as well as the 1st mandatory training session regarding cybersecurity policies of the company. The companies leadership will participate in the live session including the Chief information security officer, chief information officer, Chief operations manager and if feasible the companies' CEO. This session will emphasize companies policies in the cybersecurity culture. The topics will include: 
State of the company: The designated officials will share statistics regarding the companies employee's and the risk of cybersecurity threats. Any relevant data regarding the past incidents will also be shared. 
Emphasizing the company's culture that cybersecurity is "everyone's responsibility" 
Information regarding who to contact and report if an employee suspects a data breach, receives a suspicious e-mail etc. 
Introduction to reward programs for compliance with the cybersecurity policies or reporting incidents. 
In addition to the in person/live sessions, the employees will also take additional course to create awareness on specific categories of cybersecurity insults. The courses would need to be taken on an annual basis with an update on the new security risks 
Phishing scams: Emphasizing not to click unfamiliar links in external e-mail. Emphasizing the company's administration will never ask the employee's to directly provide password etc. 
Information regarding the common types of hacking tricks such as malware, ransomware, formjacking, code injection, brute force with examples of data breaches with other companies 
Online training with the installation of anti-malware software on the employee's personal devices 
Certain employees maybe more vulnerable, especially if they need to routinely perform work related activities from home. For example residents who need to obtain access to electronic medical records of patients from home. Such employees may be better off with using company's issued devices with secure encryption at home. An alternative will be encrypting the employee's personal devices (if they are willing) for remote work. 
The employees will be educated regarding the 2 or 4 factor identification system to prevent identity theft. The online training will inform the employees with examples regarding the mechanisms of identity theft along with videos of how to set this up at the start of their employment 
The employees will be educated about the company's policies of not using external USB, how to obtain encrypted USBs for work that maybe issued by the company if needed. 
The training will also include information regarding the alternatives to using personal devices at work such as remote desktop connection, working on the server that is protected against a firewall rather than personal computer for any data related activity. Using encrypted USBs issued by the company rather than the external USBs. 
Adopting common sense measures including logging out before leaving a computer, Limiting access to confidential information on a need to know basis. Not disclosing protected information on social media. Reporting incidents of potential data breaches e-g lost or stolen laptop 
After you’ve run your training, how will you measure its effectiveness? 
The effectiveness of the cybersecurity culture framework will be assessed by evaluating the three dimensions 
Measuring awareness: This will include results of the quizzes, participation level in the training programs. Testing employee's knowledge by conducting surveys and comparing results for before and after training using the same survey. Another method is by assessing employee feedback 
Measuring behavior: This can be achieved by simulating phishing attacks and measuring how many employees fell into the trap. 
Measuring culture: Performing qualitative analysis to determine the culture of the institution by reviewing patient's feedback. Identifying recurrent topics and obtaining a sense how seriously do the employees take the cybersecurity threats. Determine whether these perceptions have changed with the implementation of new policies. I would conduct these qualitative cybersecurity culture analysis on a yearly basis. 
